Add instructions on new repo settings (#306)
kyma-project/community: guidelines/internal-guidelines/new-repository-settings.md

# Repository Settings

All repositories in `kyma-project` and `kyma-incubator` organizations should be similar in structure, settings, and restrictions. Follow this document to adjust the new repository settings when you create a new repository in one of these organizations.

> **NOTE:** You have to be an owner of the given organization to create a new repository in it.

## Table of contents

Follow these sections:

- [Use the repository template](#use-the-repository-template)
- [Adjust repository options](#adjust-repository-options)
- [Set branch protection rules](#set-branch-protection-rules)
- [Add webhooks](#add-webhooks)
  - [Prow webhook](#prow-webhook)
  - [ZenHub webhook](#zenhub-webhook)
- [Add a milv file](#add-a-milv-file)
- [Create labels](#create-labels)

## Use the repository template

After you create a new repository, copy the basic repository structure from the [`template`](./repository-template/template) folder that is available in the `community` repository. It contains such files as the obligatory Apache license, the `CODEOWNERS` file that governs the review and approval flow in the repository, and the Stale Bot that handles inactive issues.

> > **TIP:** Read this [`README.md`](./repository-template/README.md) document to learn more about each file and document within the `template` folder.

Author: folder's contents?

After copying the template documents and files, modify these according to the instructions they contain:
- [`CODEOWNERS`](./repository-template/template/CODEOWNERS) to define who is responsible for the review and approval of specific repository parts
- [`README.md`](./repository-template/template/README.md) to describe the repository and explain how to use and develop it

## Adjust repository options

> Under the repository name, click **Settings**. The **Options** view opens as the default one in the left menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the repository name, choose the **Settings** tab. The **Options** view opens as the default one in the left menu.
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, it may be easier to find that way.

1. Scroll down to the **Features** section and clear these options:
- Wikis
- Restrict editing to users in teams with push access only
- Projects

![Features](../../assets/features.png)

2. Go to the **Merge button** section and clear these options:
- Allow merge commits
- Allow rebase merging

![Merge button](../../assets/merge-button.png)

Leave only the **Allow squash merging** option selected. This option combines all commits into one before merging the changes into the `master` branch.

## Set branch protection rules

Define branch protection rules that include enforcing obligatory review and approval of pull requests (PRs), and define which Prow jobs need to pass successfully before merging PR changes into the `master` branch.

To see these settings, go to **Branches** in the left menu, under repository **Settings**:

![Branch protection rules](../../assets/branch-protection-rules.png)

> In Kyma, these rules are defined in the Prow [`config.yaml`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/config.yaml) file and handled by a Prow component called [Branch Protector](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/docs/prow/prow-architecture.md#branch-protector).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kyma, the protection rules are defined in the Prow [`config.yaml`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/config.yaml) file and handled by a Prow component called [Branch Protector](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/docs/prow/prow-architecture.md#branch-protector).
```

If you add a new repository in:
- `kyma-project`, you do not need to add a new entry to the Prow `config.yaml` file as the branch protection is already defined for [all repositories](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/config.yaml#L380) within this organization. The only exception is if you want to specify additional rules that are not handled by Prow.

> - `kyma-incubator`, add a new repository entry to the Prow `config.yaml` file, under **branch-protection.kyma-incubator.repos**. [See](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/config.yaml) an example of such an entry for the `marketplaces` repository.

Reviewer: can we link to the specific line in the config.yaml? --> https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/config.yaml#L442

Author: I did that originally but @michal-hudy quite wisely suggested that the lines will change in time so it is better to link to the document in general.

> - `kyma-incubator`, add a new repository entry to the Prow `config.yaml` file, under **branch-protection.kyma-incubator.repos**. [See](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/config.yaml#L422) an example of such an entry for the `varkes` repository.

Reviewer 2: I would rather use `marketplaces` repository as it has protection enabled on all branches

### ZenHub webhook

To activate the ZenHub webhook:
1. Go to the [Kyma workspace](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/kyma---all-repositories-5b6d5985084045741e744dea/board?repos=139590616,139590577,139847219,139590666,139590641,147495537,151691065,146318286,157188288,156510564,167399060,169101295,171673731,150745068,167146343,165843160,170300585,186589820,188835954) on ZenHub.
2. Click **Repos** and select the **Add Repos** option.

![Zenhub webhook](../../assets/zenhub-webhook.png)

3. Choose the organization in the left bottom corner of the pop-up box, select the repository you want to add from the available list, and click the **Add this repo** button.

![Zenhub webhook 2](../../assets/zenhub-webhook-2.png)

## Add a milv file

If you define any governance-related [Prow job](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/prow/jobs/) for the new repository to validate documentation links, you must add a `milv.config.yaml` file at the root of the repository. [See](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/master/milv.config.yaml) an example of the milv file.

## Create labels

> [Define labels](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-label) for the new repository so you could use them in issues and pull requests. Follow the naming convention and color array used in other repositories.

Reviewer: We could link to the issues-workflow.md ---> https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/issues-workflow.md#default-labels

Author: I will link to the labels in the `kyma` repository instead -> https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/labels. As discussed, the `issues-workflow.md` doc will need to be updated with exact recommendations for the label colors. So far, I guess that "real" repo example would be better.
